# Automation-of-Attendance-montoring-system
It performs Facial recognition with high accuracy. This attendance project uses webcam to detect faces and records the attendance live in an excel sheet. In order to determine the distinctive aspects of the faces based on distance, convolutional neural networks are used. All you need to do is stand in front of the camera and your face is verified instantly in milliseconds, without recording the attendance more than once.  Facial recognition systems are commonly used for verification and security purposes but the levels of accuracy are still being improved. Errors occurring in facial feature detection due to occlusions, pose and illumination changes can be compensated by the use of hog descriptors. The most reliable way to measure a face is by employing deep learning techniques. The final step is to train a classifier that can take in the measurements from a new test image and tells which known person is the closest match. A python based application is being developed to recognize faces in all conditions.  We study the question of feature sets for robust visual object recognition; adopting linear SVM based human detection as a test case. After reviewing existing edge and gradient based descriptors, we show experimentally that grids of histograms of oriented gradient (HOG) descriptors significantly outperform existing feature sets for human detection. We study the influence of each stage of the computation on performance, concluding that fine-scale gradients, fine orientation binning, relatively coarse spatial binning, and high-quality local contrast normalization in overlapping descriptor blocks are all important for good results. The new approach gives near-perfect separation on the original MIT pedestrian database, so we introduce a more challenging dataset containing over 1800 annotated human images with a large range of pose variations and backgrounds.
